src/content/docs/clients/using-claude-code-with-gram-mcp-servers.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using Claude Code with Gram-hosted MCP servers"
description: "Learn how to connect Claude Code to Gram-hosted MCP servers, giving Claude access to your APIs and tools directly from the terminal."
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

[Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) is Anthropic's terminal-based tool that brings Claude's capabilities directly to your command line. Unlike Claude Desktop, which runs in a graphical interface, the Claude Code CLI can access your current project folder.

![Claude Code terminal interface showing welcome message](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-intro.png)

When combined with [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) servers, Claude Code becomes even more useful. Using MCP servers, you can give Claude access to your tools and infrastructure, allowing it to work with your APIs, databases, and other services.

This guide will show you how to connect Claude Code to a [Gram-hosted MCP server](/blog/the-easiest-way-to-host-mcp-servers) using the example Push Advisor API from the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts). You'll learn how to set up the connection, test it, and use natural language to perform vibe checks before you vibe code.

Find the full code and OpenAPI document in the [Push Advisor API repository](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/tree/main/push-advisor-api).

## Prerequisites

You'll need:

- A [Gram account](https://app.getgram.ai).
- [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed.

## Getting started

First, [authenticate with Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup).

Then, verify that Claude Code is installed correctly:

```bash
claude --help
```

If installation is successful, you'll see Claude Code's available commands and options.

## Creating a Gram MCP server

If you already have a Gram MCP server configured, you can skip to [connecting Claude Code to your Gram-hosted MCP server](#connecting-claude-code-to-your-gram-hosted-mcp-server). For an in-depth guide to how Gram works and more details on how to create a Gram-hosted MCP server, check out the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts).

### Setting up a Gram project

In the [Gram dashboard](https://app.getgram.ai), click **New Project** to start the guided setup flow for creating a toolset and MCP server.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the New Project link](/img/guides/claude-code/gram-new-project.png)

Enter a project name and click **Submit**. 

Gram will then guide you through the following steps.

#### Step 1: Upload the OpenAPI document

Upload the [Push Advisor OpenAPI document](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/blob/main/push-advisor-api/openapi.yaml), enter the name of your API, and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the upload your OpenAPI spec dialog](/img/guides/claude-code/upload-openapi-spec.png)

#### Step 2: Create a toolset

Give your toolset a name (for example, "Push Advisor") and click **Continue**. 

![Screenshot of the create toolset dialog](/img/guides/claude-code/create-toolset.png)

Notice that the names of the tools that will be generated from your OpenAPI document are displayed in this dialog.

#### Step 3: Configure MCP

Enter a URL slug for the MCP server and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the configure MCP dialog](/img/guides/claude-code/configure-mcp.png)

Gram will create the toolset from the OpenAPI document.

Click **Toolsets** in the sidebar to view the Push Advisor toolset.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/claude-code/toolset-created.png)

### Configuring environment variables

[Environments](/concepts/environments) store API keys and configuration separate from your toolset logic.

In the **Environments** tab, click the "Default" environment. Click the three dots in the top right corner of the environment card and then **Fill for Toolset**. Select the **Push Advisor** toolset and click **Fill Variables** to automatically populate the required variables.

![Screenshot showing the fill for toolset dialog to automatically populate required variables](/img/guides/claude-code/fill-env-vars-toolset.png)

The Push Advisor API is hosted at `canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`, so set the `<API_name>_SERVER_URL` environment variable to `https://canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`. Click **Update** and then **Save**.

![Set server URL](/img/guides/claude-code/set-server-url.png)

### Publishing an MCP server

Let's make the toolset available as an MCP server.

Go to the **MCP** tab, find the Push Advisor toolset and click on it to open the MCP details page. 


Scroll down to the **Visibility** section and tick the **Public** checkbox.

![Screenshot of the MCP details page](/img/guides/claude-code/mcp-details.png)

Next, you'll need to copy the MCP server configuration.

Scroll down to the **MCP Config** section and copy the **Public Server** configuration.

![Screenshot showing the MCP server config dialog for the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/claude-code/copy-mcp-config.png)

The configuration will look something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
          "mcp-remote",
          "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod"
        ]
    }
  }
}
```

Use the **Authenticated Server** configuration if you want to use the MCP server in a private environment.

You'll need an API key to use an authenticated server. [Generate an API key](/concepts/api-keys) in the **Settings** tab and copy it to the `GRAM_KEY` environment variable in place of `<your-key-here>`.

The authenticated server configuration looks something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "mcp-remote",
        "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod",
        "--header",
        "Authorization: ${GRAM_KEY}"
      ],
      "env": {
        "GRAM_KEY": "Bearer <your-key-here>"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Connecting Claude Code to your Gram-hosted MCP server

Now we'll connect Claude Code to your newly created MCP server.

Claude Code approaches MCP server configuration differently from Claude Desktop. Instead of using a JSON config file, you add servers using the `claude mcp add` command.

If you're using the **Public Server** configuration, run the following command in your terminal using your MCP server URL:

```bash
claude mcp add push-advisor -- npx mcp-remote https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod
```

If you're using the **Authenticated Server** configuration, run the following command:

```bash
claude mcp add push-advisor \
  -e GRAM_KEY="Bearer your-api-key-here" \
  -- npx mcp-remote https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod --header "Authorization: ${GRAM_KEY}"
```

Here's what these commands do:

- `push-advisor` – The name you're giving the server locally.
- `--` – Separates Claude Code flags from the server command.
- `npx mcp-remote` – The package that handles remote MCP server connections.

In the command for authenticated servers:

- `-e GRAM_KEY=...` – Sets your API key as an environment variable.
- `--header` – The flag that passes the authorization header to the remote server.

## Verifying the connection

Check that the server was added successfully:

```bash
claude mcp list
```

You should see `push-advisor` in the list. 

To see the full configuration:

```bash
claude mcp get push-advisor
```

![Screenshot showing the terminal output after successfully adding and configuring an MCP server in Claude Code](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-mcp-install.png)

## Testing the setup

Now test the connection by starting Claude Code and running a vibe check.

First, start an interactive session with Claude Code in your terminal:

```bash
claude
```

Ask Claude a basic question like, "What's the vibe today?"

<video width="600" controls>
  <source src="/videos/claude-code-showcase.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

### Testing tool permissions

Ask Claude to check if it's safe to push code to production today.

```
Is it safe to push code to production today?
```

![Screenshot showing Claude Code's tool permission prompt when Claude wants to use an MCP tool](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-tool-permission.png)

Claude Code will use the `can_i_push_to_prod` tool to check the current day and ask for permission to use it. A prompt will appear asking to confirm the tool call.

![Screenshot showing the result after Claude Code successfully calls the Push Advisor API tool](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-push-request.png)


## Troubleshooting

Let's go through some common issues and how to fix them.

### Server not found

If Claude Code can't find your server:

```bash
# Check if the server is listed
claude mcp list

# Remove and re-add the server
claude mcp remove push-advisor
claude mcp add push-advisor -- npx mcp-remote https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod
```

### Authentication errors

If you get authentication errors:

- Verify your Gram API key in the dashboard under **Settings > API Keys**. 
- Check that environment variables are correctly set in Gram.
- Ensure the Push Advisor API base URL is accessible.

### Tool calls not working

If Claude Code isn't calling the tools:

- Test the MCP server in the **Gram Playground** first.
- Check that the toolset includes the tools to use.
- Verify the environment is correctly configured with the required variables.

## What's next

You now have Claude Code connected to a Gram-hosted MCP server with vibe-checking capabilities.

Ready to build your own MCP server? [Try Gram today](https://getgram.ai) and see how easy it is to turn any API into agent-ready tools.

Commit message:

Fix merge conflicts with main branch
- Update titles: 'Creating' -> 'Create', 'Curating' -> 'Curate', 'Testing' -> 'Test'
- Update sidebar order for test-toolsets.md (3 -> 4)
- Add --scope project flag to Claude Code examples
- Add explanation for --scope project option

Co-authored-by: Amp <amp@ampcode.com>
Amp-Thread-ID: https://ampcode.com/threads/T-ee6d9993-eb4d-476f-a620-ddfb7929fb9f

src/content/docs/clients/using-claude-code-with-gram-mcp-servers.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using Claude Code with Gram-hosted MCP servers"
description: "Learn how to connect Claude Code to Gram-hosted MCP servers, giving Claude access to your APIs and tools directly from the terminal."
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

[Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) is Anthropic's terminal-based tool that brings Claude's capabilities directly to your command line. Unlike Claude Desktop, which runs in a graphical interface, the Claude Code CLI can access your current project folder.

![Claude Code terminal interface showing welcome message](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-intro.png)

When combined with [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) servers, Claude Code becomes even more useful. Using MCP servers, you can give Claude access to your tools and infrastructure, allowing it to work with your APIs, databases, and other services.

This guide will show you how to connect Claude Code to a [Gram-hosted MCP server](/blog/the-easiest-way-to-host-mcp-servers) using the example Push Advisor API from the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts). You'll learn how to set up the connection, test it, and use natural language to perform vibe checks before you vibe code.

Find the full code and OpenAPI document in the [Push Advisor API repository](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/tree/main/push-advisor-api).

## Prerequisites

You'll need:

- A [Gram account](https://app.getgram.ai).
- [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed.

## Getting started

First, [authenticate with Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup).

Then, verify that Claude Code is installed correctly:

```bash
claude --help
```

If installation is successful, you'll see Claude Code's available commands and options.

## Creating a Gram MCP server

If you already have a Gram MCP server configured, you can skip to [connecting Claude Code to your Gram-hosted MCP server](#connecting-claude-code-to-your-gram-hosted-mcp-server). For an in-depth guide to how Gram works and more details on how to create a Gram-hosted MCP server, check out the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts).

### Setting up a Gram project

In the [Gram dashboard](https://app.getgram.ai), click **New Project** to start the guided setup flow for creating a toolset and MCP server.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the New Project link](/img/guides/claude-code/gram-new-project.png)

Enter a project name and click **Submit**. 

Gram will then guide you through the following steps.

#### Step 1: Upload the OpenAPI document

Upload the [Push Advisor OpenAPI document](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/blob/main/push-advisor-api/openapi.yaml), enter the name of your API, and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the upload your OpenAPI spec dialog](/img/guides/claude-code/upload-openapi-spec.png)

#### Step 2: Create a toolset

Give your toolset a name (for example, "Push Advisor") and click **Continue**. 

![Screenshot of the create toolset dialog](/img/guides/claude-code/create-toolset.png)

Notice that the names of the tools that will be generated from your OpenAPI document are displayed in this dialog.

#### Step 3: Configure MCP

Enter a URL slug for the MCP server and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the configure MCP dialog](/img/guides/claude-code/configure-mcp.png)

Gram will create the toolset from the OpenAPI document.

Click **Toolsets** in the sidebar to view the Push Advisor toolset.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/claude-code/toolset-created.png)

### Configuring environment variables

[Environments](/concepts/environments) store API keys and configuration separate from your toolset logic.

In the **Environments** tab, click the "Default" environment. Click the three dots in the top right corner of the environment card and then **Fill for Toolset**. Select the **Push Advisor** toolset and click **Fill Variables** to automatically populate the required variables.

![Screenshot showing the fill for toolset dialog to automatically populate required variables](/img/guides/claude-code/fill-env-vars-toolset.png)

The Push Advisor API is hosted at `canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`, so set the `<API_name>_SERVER_URL` environment variable to `https://canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`. Click **Update** and then **Save**.

![Set server URL](/img/guides/claude-code/set-server-url.png)

### Publishing an MCP server

Let's make the toolset available as an MCP server.

Go to the **MCP** tab, find the Push Advisor toolset and click on it to open the MCP details page. 


Scroll down to the **Visibility** section and tick the **Public** checkbox.

![Screenshot of the MCP details page](/img/guides/claude-code/mcp-details.png)

Next, you'll need to copy the MCP server configuration.

Scroll down to the **MCP Config** section and copy the **Public Server** configuration.

![Screenshot showing the MCP server config dialog for the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/claude-code/copy-mcp-config.png)

The configuration will look something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
          "mcp-remote",
          "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod"
        ]
    }
  }
}
```

Use the **Authenticated Server** configuration if you want to use the MCP server in a private environment.

You'll need an API key to use an authenticated server. [Generate an API key](/concepts/api-keys) in the **Settings** tab and copy it to the `GRAM_KEY` environment variable in place of `<your-key-here>`.

The authenticated server configuration looks something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "mcp-remote",
        "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod",
        "--header",
        "Authorization: ${GRAM_KEY}"
      ],
      "env": {
        "GRAM_KEY": "Bearer <your-key-here>"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Connecting Claude Code to your Gram-hosted MCP server

Now we'll connect Claude Code to your newly created MCP server.

Claude Code approaches MCP server configuration differently from Claude Desktop. Instead of using a JSON config file, you add servers using the `claude mcp add` command.

If you're using the **Public Server** configuration, run the following command in your terminal using your MCP server URL:

```bash
claude mcp add push-advisor --scope project -- npx mcp-remote https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod
```

If you're using the **Authenticated Server** configuration, run the following command:

```bash
claude mcp add push-advisor \
  --scope project \
  -e GRAM_KEY="Bearer your-api-key-here" \
  -- npx mcp-remote https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod --header "Authorization: ${GRAM_KEY}"
```

Here's what these commands do:

- `push-advisor` – The name you're giving the server locally.
- `--scope project` adds the server to a local .mcp.json file that can be checked into your source control and shared with other users on the project. You can [read more about other scope options](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp#mcp-installation-scopes) at Anthropic's documentation.
- `--` – Separates Claude Code flags from the server command.
- `npx mcp-remote` – The package that handles remote MCP server connections.

In the command for authenticated servers:

- `-e GRAM_KEY=...` – Sets your API key as an environment variable.
- `--header` – The flag that passes the authorization header to the remote server.

## Verifying the connection

Check that the server was added successfully:

```bash
claude mcp list
```

You should see `push-advisor` in the list. 

To see the full configuration:

```bash
claude mcp get push-advisor
```

![Screenshot showing the terminal output after successfully adding and configuring an MCP server in Claude Code](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-mcp-install.png)

## Testing the setup

Now test the connection by starting Claude Code and running a vibe check.

First, start an interactive session with Claude Code in your terminal:

```bash
claude
```

Ask Claude a basic question like, "What's the vibe today?"

<video width="600" controls>
  <source src="/videos/claude-code-showcase.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

### Testing tool permissions

Ask Claude to check if it's safe to push code to production today.

```
Is it safe to push code to production today?
```

![Screenshot showing Claude Code's tool permission prompt when Claude wants to use an MCP tool](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-tool-permission.png)

Claude Code will use the `can_i_push_to_prod` tool to check the current day and ask for permission to use it. A prompt will appear asking to confirm the tool call.

![Screenshot showing the result after Claude Code successfully calls the Push Advisor API tool](/img/guides/claude-code/claude-code-push-request.png)


## Troubleshooting

Let's go through some common issues and how to fix them.

### Server not found

If Claude Code can't find your server:

```bash
# Check if the server is listed
claude mcp list

# Remove and re-add the server
claude mcp remove push-advisor
claude mcp add push-advisor --scope project -- npx mcp-remote https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod
```

### Authentication errors

If you get authentication errors:

- Verify your Gram API key in the dashboard under **Settings > API Keys**. 
- Check that environment variables are correctly set in Gram.
- Ensure the Push Advisor API base URL is accessible.

### Tool calls not working

If Claude Code isn't calling the tools:

- Test the MCP server in the **Gram Playground** first.
- Check that the toolset includes the tools to use.
- Verify the environment is correctly configured with the required variables.

## What's next

You now have Claude Code connected to a Gram-hosted MCP server with vibe-checking capabilities.

Ready to build your own MCP server? [Try Gram today](https://getgram.ai) and see how easy it is to turn any API into agent-ready tools.
