src/content/docs/guides/using-gemini-cli-with-gram-mcp-servers.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using Gemini CLI with Gram MCP servers"
description: "Learn how to connect Gemini CLI to Gram-hosted MCP servers, giving Gemini access to your APIs and tools directly from the terminal."
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

[Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) is Google's open-source terminal-based tool that brings Gemini's capabilities directly to your command line. Unlike web-based interfaces, the Gemini CLI operates entirely in your terminal and has access to your current project folder, offering a lightweight and efficient way to interact with Gemini models from within your project.

![Gemini CLI terminal interface showing welcome message](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-intro.png)

When combined with [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) servers, Gemini CLI becomes even more useful. Using MCP servers, you can give Gemini access to your tools and infrastructure, allowing it to work with your APIs, databases, and other services through built-in MCP support.

This guide will show you how to connect Gemini CLI to a [Gram-hosted MCP server](/blog/the-easiest-way-to-host-mcp-servers) using the example Push Advisor API from the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts). You'll learn how to set up the connection, test it, and use natural language to perform vibe checks before you vibe code.

Find the full code and OpenAPI document in the [Push Advisor API repository](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/tree/main/push-advisor-api).

## Prerequisites

You'll need:

- A [Gram account](https://getgram.ai).
- [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) installed.
- Node.js version 18 or higher.

## Getting started

You have two options to install Gemini CLI:

**Option 1:** Run directly with npx
```bash
npx https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli
```

**Option 2:** Install globally
```bash
npm install -g @google/gemini-cli
```

### Verifying installation

Test that Gemini CLI is working:

```bash
gemini --help
```

If installation is successful, you'll see Gemini CLI's available commands and options.

### Authentication

When you first run `gemini`, you'll be prompted to authenticate. You can sign in with your personal Google account to get free access to Gemini 2.5 Pro with generous usage limits (60 requests per minute, 1,000 requests per day).

## Creating a Gram MCP server

If you already have a Gram MCP server configured, you can skip to [connecting Gemini CLI to your server](#connect-gemini-cli-to-your-mcp-server). Otherwise, let's set up the Push Advisor example now.

For an in-depth guide on how Gram works and a more detailed guide on how to create a Gram MCP server, check out the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts).

### Setting up a Gram project

In the [Gram dashboard](https://getgram.ai), click **New Project** to start the guided setup flow for creating a toolset and MCP server.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the New Project link](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gram-new-project.png)

Enter a project name and click **Submit**. 

Gram will then guide you through the following steps.

#### Step 1: Upload the OpenAPI document

Upload the [Push Advisor OpenAPI document](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/blob/main/push-advisor-api/openapi.yaml), enter the name of your API, and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the upload your OpenAPI spec dialog](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/upload-openapi-spec.png)

#### Step 2: Create a toolset

Give your toolset a name (for example, "Push Advisor") and click **Continue**. 

![Screenshot of the create toolset dialog](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/create-toolset.png)

Notice that the names of the tools that will be generated from your OpenAPI document are displayed in this dialog.

#### Step 3: Configure MCP

Enter a URL slug for the MCP server and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the configure MCP dialog](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/configure-mcp.png)

Gram will create the toolset from the OpenAPI document.

Click **Toolsets** in the sidebar to view the Push Advisor toolset.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/toolset-created.png)

### Configuring environment variables

[Environments](/concepts/environments) store API keys and configuration separate from your toolset logic.

In the **Environments** tab, click the "Default" environment. Click **Edit** and then **Fill for Toolset**. Select the **Push Advisor** toolset and click **Fill Variables** to automatically populate the required variables.

![Screenshot showing the fill for toolset dialog to automatically populate required variables](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/fill-env-vars-toolset.png)

The Push Advisor API is hosted at `canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`, so set the `<API_name>_SERVER_URL` environment variable to `https://canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`. Click **Update** and then **Save**.

![Screenshot showing setting the server URL environment variable](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/set-server-url.png)

### Publishing an MCP server

Let's make the toolset available as an MCP server.

Go to the **MCP** tab, find the Push Advisor toolset, and click **Edit**. 

On the **MCP Details** page, tick the **Public** checkbox and click **Save**.

![Screenshot of the MCP details page](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/mcp-details.png)

Scroll down to the **MCP Config** section and copy the **Public Server** configuration.

![Screenshot showing the MCP server config dialog for the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/copy-mcp-config.png)

The configuration will look something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
          "mcp-remote",
          "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod"
        ]
    }
  }
}
```

Use the **Authenticated Server** configuration if you want to use the MCP server in a private environment.

You'll need an API key to use an authenticated server. [Generate an API key](/concepts/api-keys) in the **Settings** tab and copy it to the `GRAM_KEY` environment variable in place of `<your-key-here>`.

The authenticated server configuration looks something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "mcp-remote",
        "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod",
        "--header",
        "Authorization: ${GRAM_KEY}"
      ],
      "env": {
        "GRAM_KEY": "Bearer <your-key-here>"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Here's what these configuration options do:

- `"command"` – The executable to run (in this case `npx`).
- `"args"` – Array of command-line arguments.
- `"env"` – Environment variables for the server process (optional).
- `"timeout"` – Request timeout in milliseconds (optional, default: 600,000ms).
- `"trust"` – When `true`, bypasses all tool call confirmations (optional, default: `false`).

## Connect Gemini CLI to your MCP server

Now we'll connect Gemini CLI to your newly created MCP server.

### Add the server to Gemini CLI

Gemini CLI uses a `settings.json` configuration file to manage MCP servers. You can configure servers either globally at `~/.gemini/settings.json` or for a specific project at `.gemini/settings.json` in your project root.

Copy your MCP server configuration from Gram for either the Public Server or the Authenticated Server and add the configuration to your `.gemini/settings.json` file.

![Screenshot showing the Gemini CLI settings.json configuration file](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-settings-json.png)

### Verifying the connection

Start Gemini CLI and check that your server was configured correctly:

```bash
gemini
```

Once in the Gemini CLI session, use the `/mcp` command to view your MCP server status:

```bash
/mcp
```

You should see `GramPushadvisor` in the server list with a list of tools available.

![Screenshot showing Gemini CLI MCP server status with available tools](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-mcp-status.png)

You can also view more details about the servers' tools by using `ctrl + t` to view the tool details.

![Screenshot showing Gemini CLI tool details toggle](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-toggle-tool-details.png)

## Testing the setup

Now test the connection by running a vibe check.

Ask Gemini a basic question like, "What's the vibe today?"

<video width="600" controls>
  <source src="/videos/gemini-cli-showcase.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

### Testing tool permissions

Ask Gemini to check if it's safe to push code to production today:

```
Is it safe to push code to production today?
```

Gemini CLI will use the `can_i_push_to_prod` tool to check the current day. Before making the API call, it will ask for your permission to use the tool:

![Screenshot showing Gemini CLI's tool permission prompt when requesting to use an MCP tool](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-tool-permission.png)

You can choose to approve the tool call once, or always allow this tool to disable future prompts. Once approved, Gemini will make the API call and respond with the vibe check results:

![Screenshot showing the result after Gemini CLI successfully calls the Push Advisor API tool](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-push-request.png)

## Troubleshooting

Let's go through some common issues and how to fix them.

### Server not found

If Gemini CLI can't find your server, click `ctrl + O` to view the MCP Debug console.

![Screenshot showing the Gemini CLI debug console with server connection issues](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-debug-issue.png)

If you see `failed to start or connect to MCP server`:

- Verify that the `settings.json` file is correct and matches the configuration from Gram.
- Check that the MCP server URL is accessible.
- Ensure you're using the correct file path for your settings.

### Authentication errors

If you get authentication errors:

- Verify your Gram API key in the dashboard under **Settings > API Keys**.
- Check that environment variables are correctly set in Gram.
- Ensure the Push Advisor API base URL is accessible.

### Tool calls not working

If Gemini CLI isn't calling the tools:

- Test the MCP server in the **Gram Playground** first.
- Check that the toolset includes the tools you want to use.
- Verify the environment is correctly configured with required variables.
- Use `/mcp` in Gemini CLI to confirm the server lists the expected tools.

## What's next

You now have Gemini CLI connected to a Gram-hosted MCP server with vibe-checking capabilities.

Ready to build your own MCP server? [Try Gram today](https://getgram.ai) and see how easy it is to turn any API into agent-ready tools.

Commit message:

Edit: Using Gemini CLI with Gram-hosted MCP servers

src/content/docs/guides/using-gemini-cli-with-gram-mcp-servers.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using Gemini CLI with Gram-hosted MCP servers"
description: "Learn how to connect Gemini CLI to Gram-hosted MCP servers, giving Gemini access to your APIs and tools directly from the terminal."
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

[Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) is Google's open-source terminal-based tool that brings Gemini's capabilities directly to your command line. Unlike web-based interfaces, Gemini CLI operates entirely in your terminal and has access to your current project folder, offering a lightweight and efficient way to interact with Gemini models from within your project.

![Gemini CLI terminal interface showing welcome message](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-intro.png)

When combined with [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) servers, Gemini CLI becomes even more useful. Using MCP servers, you can give Gemini access to your tools and infrastructure, allowing it to work with your APIs, databases, and other services through built-in MCP support.

This guide will show you how to connect Gemini CLI to a [Gram-hosted MCP server](/blog/the-easiest-way-to-host-mcp-servers) using the example Push Advisor API from the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts). You'll learn how to set up the connection, test it, and use natural language to perform vibe checks before you vibe code.

Find the full code and OpenAPI document in the [Push Advisor API repository](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/tree/main/push-advisor-api).

## Prerequisites

You'll need:

- A [Gram account](https://getgram.ai).
- [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) installed.
- Node.js version 18 or higher.

## Installing Gemini CLI

You have two options to install Gemini CLI:

**Option 1:** Run directly with npx
```bash
npx https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli
```

**Option 2:** Install globally
```bash
npm install -g @google/gemini-cli
```

## Verifying the installation

Test that Gemini CLI is working:

```bash
gemini --help
```

If installation is successful, you'll see Gemini CLI's available commands and options.

## Authenticating with Gemini CLI

When you first run `gemini`, you'll be prompted to authenticate. You can sign in with your personal Google account to get free access to Gemini 2.5 Pro with generous usage limits (60 requests per minute, 1,000 requests per day).

## Creating a Gram MCP server

If you already have a Gram-hosted MCP server configured, you can skip to [connecting Gemini CLI to your Gram-hosted MCP server](#connecting-gemini-cli-to-your-gram-hosted-mcp-server). For an in-depth guide to how Gram works and more details on how to create a Gram-hosted MCP server, check out the [Gram concepts guide](/blog/gram-concepts).

### Setting up a Gram project

In the [Gram dashboard](https://getgram.ai), click **New Project** to start the guided setup flow for creating a toolset and MCP server.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the New Project link](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gram-new-project.png)

Enter a project name and click **Submit**. 

Gram will then guide you through the following steps.

#### Step 1: Upload the OpenAPI document

Upload the [Push Advisor OpenAPI document](https://github.com/ritza-co/gram-examples/blob/main/push-advisor-api/openapi.yaml), enter the name of your API, and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the upload your OpenAPI spec dialog](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/upload-openapi-spec.png)

#### Step 2: Create a toolset

Give your toolset a name (for example, "Push Advisor") and click **Continue**. 

![Screenshot of the create toolset dialog](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/create-toolset.png)

Notice that the names of the tools that will be generated from your OpenAPI document are displayed in this dialog.

#### Step 3: Configure MCP

Enter a URL slug for the MCP server and click **Continue**.

![Screenshot of the configure MCP dialog](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/configure-mcp.png)

Gram will create the toolset from the OpenAPI document.

Click **Toolsets** in the sidebar to view the Push Advisor toolset.

![Screenshot of the Gram dashboard showing the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/toolset-created.png)

### Configuring environment variables

[Environments](/concepts/environments) store API keys and configuration separate from your toolset logic.

In the **Environments** tab, click the "Default" environment. Click **Edit** and then **Fill for Toolset**. Select the **Push Advisor** toolset and click **Fill Variables** to automatically populate the required variables.

![Screenshot showing the fill for toolset dialog to automatically populate required variables](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/fill-env-vars-toolset.png)

The Push Advisor API is hosted at `canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`, so set the `<API_name>_SERVER_URL` environment variable to `https://canpushtoprod.abdulbaaridavids04.workers.dev`. Click **Update** and then **Save**.

![Screenshot showing setting the server URL environment variable](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/set-server-url.png)

### Publishing an MCP server

Let's make the toolset available as an MCP server.

Go to the **MCP** tab, find the Push Advisor toolset, and click **Edit**. 

On the **MCP Details** page, tick the **Public** checkbox and click **Save**.

![Screenshot of the MCP details page](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/mcp-details.png)

Scroll down to the **MCP Config** section and copy the **Public Server** configuration.

![Screenshot showing the MCP server config dialog for the Push Advisor toolset](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/copy-mcp-config.png)

The configuration will look something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
          "mcp-remote",
          "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod"
        ]
    }
  }
}
```

Use the **Authenticated Server** configuration if you want to use the MCP server in a private environment.

You'll need an API key to use an authenticated server. [Generate an API key](/concepts/api-keys) in the **Settings** tab and copy it to the `GRAM_KEY` environment variable in place of `<your-key-here>`.

The authenticated server configuration looks something like this:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "GramPushadvisor": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "mcp-remote",
        "https://app.getgram.ai/mcp/canipushtoprod",
        "--header",
        "Authorization: ${GRAM_KEY}"
      ],
      "env": {
        "GRAM_KEY": "Bearer <your-key-here>"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Here's what these configuration options do:

- `"command"` – The executable to run (in this case `npx`).
- `"args"` – Array of command-line arguments.
- `"env"` – Environment variables for the server process (optional).
- `"timeout"` – Request timeout in milliseconds (optional, default: 600,000ms).
- `"trust"` – When `true`, bypasses all tool call confirmations (optional, default: `false`).

## Connecting Gemini CLI to your Gram-hosted MCP server

Now we'll connect Gemini CLI to your newly created MCP server.

Gemini CLI uses a `settings.json` configuration file to manage MCP servers. You can configure MCP servers in one of two files:

- Globally at `~/.gemini/settings.json`.
- For a specific project at `.gemini/settings.json` in your project root.

Copy your public or authenticated MCP server configuration from Gram and add it to the `.gemini/settings.json` file.

![Screenshot showing the Gemini CLI settings.json configuration file](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-settings-json.png)

## Verifying the connection

Start Gemini CLI:

```bash
gemini
```

Then use the `/mcp` command to view the MCP server status:

```bash
/mcp
```

You should see `GramPushadvisor` and its available tools listed.

![Screenshot showing Gemini CLI MCP server status with available tools](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-mcp-status.png)

Press `Ctrl + T` to view detailed information about the server's tools.

![Screenshot showing Gemini CLI tool details toggle](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-toggle-tool-details.png)

## Testing the setup

Now test the connection by running a vibe check.

Ask Gemini a basic question like, "What's the vibe today?"

<video width="600" controls>
  <source src="/videos/gemini-cli-showcase.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

### Testing tool permissions

Ask Gemini to check if it's safe to push code to production today:

```
Is it safe to push code to production today?
```

Gemini CLI will use the `can_i_push_to_prod` tool to check the current day. Before making the API call, it will ask for your permission to use the tool:

![Screenshot showing Gemini CLI's tool permission prompt when requesting to use an MCP tool](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-tool-permission.png)

You can approve the tool call once, or choose to always allow this tool or all tools from the server to skip future prompts. Once approved, Gemini will make the API call and respond with the vibe check results:

![Screenshot showing the result after Gemini CLI successfully calls the Push Advisor API tool](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-push-request.png)

## Troubleshooting

Let's go through some common issues and how to fix them.

### Server not found

If Gemini CLI can't find your server, press `Ctrl + O` to view the Debug Console.

![Screenshot showing the Gemini CLI Debug Console with server connection issues](/img/guides/mcp-gemini/gemini-cli-debug-issue.png)

If you see `failed to start or connect to MCP server`:

- Verify that the `settings.json` file is correct and matches the configuration from Gram.
- Check that the MCP server URL is accessible.
- Ensure you're using the correct file path for your settings.

### Authentication errors

If you get authentication errors:

- Verify your Gram API key in the dashboard under **Settings > API Keys**.
- Check that environment variables are correctly set in Gram.
- Ensure the Push Advisor API base URL is accessible.

### Tool calls not working

If Gemini CLI isn't calling the tools:

- Test the MCP server in the **Gram Playground** first.
- Check that the toolset includes the tools you want to use.
- Verify the environment is correctly configured with the required variables.
- Use `/mcp` in Gemini CLI to confirm the server lists the expected tools.

## What's next

You now have Gemini CLI connected to a Gram-hosted MCP server with vibe-checking capabilities.

Ready to build your own MCP server? [Try Gram today](https://getgram.ai) and see how easy it is to turn any API into agent-ready tools.
